This doc is created by integrating the different sources from internet.

Amazon or AWS Lightsail

1. Aws lightsail is an easy way for developers to get started with a simple virtual private server ( VPS )  solutions.

2. Lightsail provides compute, storage and networking capacity and capabilities to deploy and manage website and web application 
   in the cloud.
   
3. Lightsail includes everything you need to launch your projec uickly - a virtual machine , ssd - based sorage, datatransfer 
   DNS management and static IP.
   
4. Lightsail is best suited to project that require a few virtual private servers and users who prefer a simple management 
   interfaces.
   
5. Common use of lightsail includes running websites, web applications, blogs, e-commerce site , simple software and more.

6. Lighsail offers a range of operating system and applicaions templates that are automatically installed when you create a new
   lightsail instances. Application templates includes wordpress, drupal , joomla , magento , redmine , lamp ,nginx , mean , nodejs
   and more.
   
7. Lighsail is available in 44 availability zone and 16 egions globally.

8. A lightsail plan includes a virtual server with a fied amount of memory ( RAM ) and compute ( vCPUs) , SSD-based storage ( disks)
   and a free data transfer allocation. Lightsail plans also offers static ip address ( 5 per accoounts ) Lightsail plans are 
   chagred on an hourly demand basis, so you can nly par fir a plan when you using it.
   
9. Everything that you do from the lightsail console can also be done with an API call.

10. Each lightsail instances automatically ets a private IP address and Public IP address. Which are reachable from the internet 
    you can use the private IP to send data to other lightsail instances and aws resources in private , for free , you can also
    subsitute the public public ip of a lightsail instance with a static IP.
    
11. With lightsail , you can also mapyour registered domain names such as example.com to the public ip's of your lightsail instances.

12. To use a domain in lightsail , you must firs register it, this can be din using Route 53

13. Snapshot cna be used to backup your data wiithin lightsail. These snapshot can be used to create a new lightsail instance.

14. Each  lightsail plan comes wht a free data transfer allowence.
   
   
   
   
   
